So after the group stages we come to the knockouts, A stage where even a single mistake takes a match away from you and you are out of tournament. 

Knockout stage is the one stage in which team doesn’t prefer any changes to their winning combination or playing eleven. All experiments are done before coming to this stage and players need to lift up their game to a certain level. 
The rules are simple in this stage one who holds on their nerve at the crucial time goes on to win the match. And makes to the next level of extreme pressure game.

We had 8 teams coming into this stage after the Group stage. 

India: toped in their group defeating teams like South Africa, Pakistan and some difficult match with West Indies and Zimbabwe. Dhoni and his men were all ready to face Bangladesh in quarterfinal match. Any day Bangladesh cannot be taken lightly specially after India's defeat to Bangladesh in 2007 World cup. Dhoni men’s were everybody favourite and they did not disappoint by winning the game, making into Semi's.

South Africa: world cup favourites, and more importantly eager to remove the "Chokers" tag on them. Having a reputation of choking at the crucial moments in the game. Never won a knockout match in the ICC tournaments, were all set to give their 100% on the field against Srilanka. And finally under the leadership of AB Devillers they won their first knockout match of the world cup. Coming up strong over srilanka and registered and easy win. Into the semi's.

Srilanka: Runners up in the 2007 and 2011 world cup were all set to make into Semi's with players like Sangakara, Dilshan in form of their life. As India wanted to win the 2011 world cup for Sachin, this time it was all Srilanks who wanted to win it for Sangakara and Jayewardene. As a token of thanks to their great service to the nation. What great servant they both have been to this game and nation.

Bangladesh: No surprises, this team any day had the potential to make into the second round. And after playing their first world cup in 1999, making into the super six stage in 2007 after defeating India and now first time to knockout stages after defeating England. This team fully deserved their place in the knockout stages or rather earned their place by playing as a one strong unit. Inexperience captaincy probably lead them down in the 2nd stage but I am sure they went back home learning a lot and lot more things to work upon.

New Zealand: India topped in Group B, NZ did in group A wining their all 6 out of 6 matches. Defeating team like Australia. And were all set to play West Indies in their quarterfinal match. Quarter final match against West Indies would not bother them but can’t be even taken lightly. An easy win over West Indies guaranteed them a place in the semi-finals. A team that comes from a Rugby crazy nation had any day potential to win the cricket world cup.

Pakistan: As if Wahab Riaz had kept this spell for this day. In an era of batsman ship to bowl such spell was a treat to watch. Not much score to defend but was competitive enough. Old problem with Pakistan is dropping catches. Catches make you win matches and if you don’t hold on to them, you lose. And this is what happened. Lost the match but won hearts of everyone including Shane Watson who had troubles facing him. Tears in his eyes after the match said it all. How badly Pakistan wanted to win and how had he bowled his heart out. When greats like brain Charles Lara praise about your bowling spells you left with nothing much to say. And is enough to describe what great bowling spell that was. 

Australia: quarterfinals against Pakistan. Australia bowled well restricting Pakistan to easily chase able score of 213. Match was easy until they had to face Wahab Riaz. Pakistan had done their homework well against each player about how to bowl them, exposing Australians batsman’s weakness. Mixing up their deliveries, creating doubt in the batsman’s mind. But in end they had to end on the losing side. Australia into Semis.

West Indies: finished 4th in group B had to face NZ. NZ a much better side on papers and turn out to be better on field as well on that day. Had a mountain to climb with Martin Guptill playing innings of his life time scoring 237 leaving West Indies 358 to chase. Was not impossible but was difficult. 
